Page 1:
AUGUST 2024

Page 2:
AUGUST 2024
TABLE OF CONTENTS
• Frying Chips
• Bagging Chips
• Taco Shells
• Margarita (Select Restaurants)
• Cooling Cooked Foods

Page 3:
AUGUST 2024
FRYING CHIPS
INGREDIENTS
Sunflower oil Chips for frying Limes (halves) Kosher salt
EQUIPMENT
200250300350
150 400
100 504 050
Fryer 2 shallow Disposable
Fryer Sheet pan Digital scale Fryer basket
thermometer 11⁄66 pans gloves
Timer Mesh strainer Mixing bowl Lime squeezer Salt shaker Hotel pan Paper towels
DOs AND DON'Ts
DOs DON'Ts
• DO inspect the mesh strainer for frayed and broken • DON'T fry chips if sunflower oil is below or above 375°F.
wires prior to each use. • DON'T overfill the fryer basket.
• DO use the correct pan to portion chips. • DON'T fry chips for longer than 50 seconds.
• DO use a timer, every time. • DON'T forget to wipe out the mixing bowl.
• DO let the fryer oil recover to 375°F between batches. • DON'T leave the shallow 11⁄66 pan inside the case of chips.
• DON'T forget to drain and clean the sinks after
cleaning the fryer basket, mesh strainer and mixing bowl.
RECIPE PHOTOS
LINE

Page 4:
AUGUST 2024
FRYING CHIPS
Did you know? The corn masa flour used in our
chips is unique to Chipotle. By properly frying
and seasoning our chips in-house every day, we
highlight the texture and flavor of the corn masa
flour and ensure great tasting chips for every guest.
FFllaavvoorr && AArroommaa AAppppeeaarraannccee CCoolloorr TTeexxttuurree && MMoouutthh FFeeeell
Smooth to slightly grainy Light golden to pale yellow
Toasted corn with hint Light and crisp
triangles with some puffiness with light to medium-brown
of lime and salt with good crunch
from air bubbles toast points
1. Turn on the pilot light and set the fryer to 375°F. Add 12. Follow the procedure for tasting food properly. Ensure
sunflower oil to fill line, if necessary. chips are crisp and properly seasoned.
2. Check the temperature of the oil with the fryer 13. Pour seasoned chips into hotel pan.
thermometer before frying. The fryer will take
approximately 20 minutes to heat. 14. Continue using lime to season further batches until it
no longer has any juice. Place squeezed limes into an
3. Remove case of chips from walk-in. Place sheet pan empty shallow 11⁄66 pan.
on clean prep table, then place box on top.
15. Every couple of batches, or once a hotel pan is
4. Place shallow 11⁄66 pan on digital scale and tare to zero. full of chips:
• Wipe out mixing bowl with a paper towel.
5. Wash, rinse and sanitize hands. Put on disposable gloves.
• Verify oil temperature recovers to 375°F
6. With gloved hands, loosely fill shallow 11⁄66 pan with between batches.
9 ounces of chips. Use as a visual guide for frying
• Following the procedure for tasting food properly,
the rest of the chips.
taste chips after they have cooled to ensure they
are not under or over cooked.
7. Pour chips into fryer basket and lower into fryer.
Using the timer, cook chips for 50 seconds, • Set hotel pan aside for bagging. Once all chips
stirring continuously with mesh strainer, then are fried, follow the Bagging Chips recipe card.
pull basket out of fryer. Use the timer every time to
ensure perfect chips. 16. Turn fryer off.
8. Shake basket over fryer to drain any excess oil. 17. Wash, rinse and sanitize all equipment as the
Immediately pour chips into mixing bowl. last items before sinks are drained and cleaned to
avoid transferring oil residue to other equipment.
9. Place lime half into squeezer with the peel side
up. Squeeze over chips in circular motion, ensuring
each chip gets seasoned. Chips should be hot enough NOTE:
to hear the juice sizzle when it hits them. Before cleaning the fryer, you must temp the fryer oil
to ensure it’s 100°F or below. Don't ever wipe down the
10. Sprinkle the chips with an even layer of salt and fryer while it's hot. Cleaning the fryer when the oil is
flip them once. above 100°F may result in very serious injuries.
11. Repeat seasoning on other side of chips with
the same lime half and an even layer of salt,
then flip one more time.
LINE SECONDARY SHELF LIFE 16 HOURS NO OVERNIGHT HOLD

Page 5:
AUGUST 2024
BAGGING CHIPS
INGREDIENTS
Chips
EQUIPMENT
Chip bags Stickers Disposable gloves Burrito bowl Digital scale
DOs AND DON'Ts
DOs DON'Ts
• DO use gloved hands to place chips into a new, clean • DON'T use a red basket.
burrito bowl. • DON'T use the burrito bowl as a scoop.
• DO use the digital scale to determine the correct • DON'T leave the burrito bowl in the chips when not
portion size. actively bagging.
• DO discard the burrito bowl when all chips have • DON'T overfill hotel pan with fried chips.
been bagged. • DON'T wrap warm chips.
RECIPE PHOTOS
LINE

Page 6:
AUGUST 2024
BAGGING CHIPS
Did you know? We offer 3 portion sizes of chips.
When bagged, we make sure each chip is fully
intact and each bag is accurately portioned so
our chips can be enjoyed by our guests, whether
eaten on their own or paired with our guacamole,
queso or salsas.
FFllaavvoorr && AArroommaa AAppppeeaarraannccee CCoolloorr TTeexxttuurree && MMoouutthh FFeeeell
Smooth to slightly grainy Light golden to pale yellow
Toasted corn with hint Light and crisp
triangles with some puffiness with light to medium-brown
of lime and salt with good crunch
from air bubbles toast points
1. For large chips, apply "LARGE" sticker to bags above
the "TED" in "HANDCRAFTED."
2. Wash, rinse and sanitize hands. Put on disposable gloves.
3. With gloved hands, place a new, clean burrito bowl
on digital scale and tare to 0.
4. Use gloved hands to portion 4 ounces for regular chips.
Use the burrito bowl to place chips into the bag. Use as
a visual guide for bagging the rest of the chips.
5. For large chips, use burrito bowl to place 4 ounce
portion of chips into large bag. Then place the large
bag on the scale, tare it to 0 and portion 2 more ounces
of chips. Use this as a visual guide for bagging the rest
of the large chips.
6. For kid’s chips, place the kid’s bag on the scale and tare
to 0. Portion 1 ounce of chips. Use this as a visual guide
for bagging the rest of the kid’s chips.
7. Fold bag edges toward the seam, ensuring crisp
and uniform folds. Use a 11⁄44" fold for kid's chips and
a 2" fold for regular and large chips on the dotted fold
line.
8. Place folded bags on chip shelves.
NOTE:
On the rare occasion all chips cannot be bagged before
open, allow chips to cool, wrap with plastic wrap, and label.
LINE SECONDARY SHELF LIFE 16 HOURS NO OVERNIGHT HOLD

Page 7:
AUGUST 2024
TACO SHELLS
INGREDIENTS
Taco sized corn tortillas
Sunflower oil
for frying
EQUIPMENT
200250300350
150 400
100 504 050
Fryer Disposable
Fryer Taco molds Inserts Timer Basket liners
thermometer gloves
Zenput label
Sheet pan Tongs Deep 11⁄33 pan Red baskets 11⁄33 pan lid iPad
printer
DOs AND DON'Ts
DOs DON'Ts
• DO use a timer. • DON'T fry taco shells if sunflower oil is below or
above 375°F.
• DO set up enough lined baskets of taco shells to be
rush ready. • DON’T fry taco shells for longer than 35 seconds.
• DON'T forget to drain the excess oil from the taco molds.
• DON'T forget to drain and clean the sinks after
cleaning the taco molds, inserts, sheet pan, and tongs.
RECIPE PHOTOS
LINE

Page 8:
AUGUST 2024
TACO SHELLS
Did you know? The corn masa flour used in our
corn tortillas is unique to Chipotle. We fry our corn
tortillas daily to provide an unmatched level of
freshness, flavor and quality for our guests craving
our crispy corn tacos.
Flavor & Aroma Appearance Color Texture & Mouth Feel
Whole, unbroken tacos with Pale yellow with brown Crispy and
Toasted corn
evenly distributed toast marks toast points slightly grainy
1. Turn on the pilot light and set the fryer to 375ºF. Add 9. Stack taco shells on their sides into a deep 11⁄33 pan.
sunflower oil to the fill line, if necessary.
10. Turn fryer off.
2. Check the temperature of the oil with the fryer
thermometer before frying. The fryer will take 11. Fill lined baskets with 3 taco shells each.
approximately 20 minutes to heat.
12. Cover with lid and label remaining taco shells.
3. Wash, rinse and sanitize hands. Put on disposable gloves.
13. Wash, rinse and sanitize all equipment as the
4. With gloved hands, place corn tortillas evenly into last items before sinks are drained and cleaned to
taco molds. avoid transferring oil residue to other equipment.
5. Place inserts into taco molds. NOTE:
Before cleaning the fryer, you must temp the fryer oil
6. Lower molds into fryer. Using the timer, cook taco to ensure it’s 100°F or below. Don't ever wipe down the
shells for 35 seconds, then pull molds out of fryer. fryer while it's hot. Cleaning the fryer when the oil is
Use the timer every time to ensure perfect taco shells. above 100°F may result in very serious injuries.
7. Shake taco molds over fryer to drain excess oil.
8. Carefully remove inserts and taco shells from taco
molds onto a lined sheet pan. Use tongs when handling
hot inserts.
LINE
SECONDARY SHELF LIFE 16 HOURS NO OVERNIGHT HOLD

Page 9:
AUGUST 2024
MARGARITA (SELECT RESTAURANTS)
INGREDIENTS
Tequila (Patron Silver or Sauza) Triple sec Citrus juice Agave nectar
Ice
1 11⁄22 ounces 11⁄22 ounce 2 pumps (2 ounces) 1 pump (11⁄22 ounce)
Limes (wedges)
EQUIPMENT
Disposable gloves Margarita cup Small scoop Shaker Measuring jigger Small tongs
DOs AND DON'Ts
DOs DON'Ts
• DO properly clean pumps. • DON'T forget to use the jigger to measure the tequila
and triple sec.
RECIPE PHOTOS
LINE

Page 10:
AUGUST 2024
MARGARITA (SELECT RESTAURANTS)
Did you know? Our freshly handmade margaritas
are made with a blend of tangy, tart citrus juice
spiked with tequila and orange liqueur. The classic
drink has a hint of sweetness that perfectly
complements the flavors in any meal.
1. Wash, rinse and sanitize hands. Put on disposable gloves.
2. With gloved hands and a small scoop, fill margarita cup
to top with ice, pour ice into shaker and set cup aside.
3. Add 1 11⁄22 ounces tequila, 11⁄22 ounce triple sec,
2 pumps (2 ounces) of citrus juice and
1 pump (11⁄22 ounce) of agave nectar to shaker.
4. Cover shaker and shake vigorously for 3–5 seconds
until foamy.
5. Pour contents of shaker into margarita cup.
6. Using small tongs, garnish with a lime wedge.
7. Serve immediately.
NOTE:
The citrus juice pump must be refrigerated or kept in
an ice bath. Empty pump and discard citrus juice at the
end of the day. If the citrus juice pump is removed from
refrigeration or an ice bath, discard after 4 hour SSL.
Empty agave nectar pump and discard agave nectar
at the end of the day.
LINE

Page 11:
AUGUST 2024
COOLING COOKED FOODS
EQUIPMENT
Shallow 2"
Thermometer Spatulas Basket liners Pen Blank label
hotel pans
BARBACOA, BEANS (BLACK & PINTO),
CARNITAS, CHICKEN, QUESO BLANCO,
PLAIN RICE (BROWN & WHITE), SOFRITAS
1. At close, use thermometer to ensure food is 7. Place pan on the top shelf in the coldest part of the
at least 140°F. walk-in, away from the door. To ensure food cools to the
required temperature in the required amount of time,
2. Remove pan from the line.
always store pans flat and never stacked. If a mobile
3. Pour food into a shallow 2" hotel pan. For any full cooling rack is used, make sure there are at least 2 empty
deep 11⁄33 pans of chicken, rice or beans, evenly distribute spaces between each pan to allow for proper airflow.
food into 2 shallow 2" hotel pans. Pouring only half of a
deep 11⁄33 pan into a shallow 2" hotel pan (approximately 3
NOTE:
pounds maximum) allows for pockets
Plain rice cannot be reheated for service the next morning,
of air flow for even cooling.
but can be donated to the Harvest Program after being
4. Use spatula to ensure food is evenly distributed and properly cooled. The following morning, transfer food from
1" deep. If food is more than 1" deep, use an additional shallow 2" hotel pans into donation bags. Do not use the
shallow 2" hotel pan. donation bags to cool food.
5. Cover completely with 2 basket liners.
Use this procedure for any food that has been heated in
6. Using a pen and a blank label, write:
the retherm, but not opened. Open any unused bags, follow
• Item name remaining steps of the recipe card for the food item then
follow steps 1-7 on cooling cooked foods.
• Today's date
• Starting cooling time (the current time)
• Starting temperature
• "Use First"
• Your initials
DOs AND DON'Ts
DOs DON'Ts
• DO cool food in a shallow 2" hotel pan. • DON'T cool food that is less than 140°F.
• DO fill a 2" shallow pan only up to 1" deep. • DON'T stack pans.
• DO evenly distribute full deep 11⁄33 pans of chicken, • DON'T cool food in a deep 11⁄33 or 11⁄66 pan.
rice and beans into two 2" shallow pans. • DON'T cool food that is greater than 1" deep.
• DO store pans on the top shelf of the walk-in or • DON'T pour an entire deep 11⁄33 pan of chicken, rice or
mobile cooling rack. beans into only one shallow 2" hotel pan.
• DON'T combine food held safely overnight with food
prepped the next day.
• DON'T place cooked, unopened bags into ice baths or
back into the walk-in.
• DON'T cool any cooked steak.
LINE SECONDARY SHELF LIFE 12 HOURS OVERNIGHT HOLD

